Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Misty Moncada: I'm good. I think I'm getting a cold.
Misty Moncada: I've been like embed a few days. But other than that, I'm okay.
Misty Moncada: Well,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Definitely scary around this time.
Misty Moncada: Well yeah, I was doing home health care and I quit my job last week because I started to freak out with everything going on. And ever since I quit. I've just been stuck in the room. Like, I don't want to come out. I don't want to leave the house.
Misty Moncada: But I wasn't feeling sick. Last week I just barely started feeling sick like yesterday or early yesterday morning, and the out early morning hours, but it's still kind of scary now because I feel kind of feverish, and I keep blowing my nose. A lot
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, check your temperature
Misty Moncada: And no I didn't. I feel like flushed. I keep sweating a lot. So I thought about going taking a cold shower but I feel worse today than I did yesterday, so I'm scared to go the hospital.
Misty Moncada: I
Misty Moncada: Don't know I'm scared. With everything going on, but hopefully I'll be okay. I'm, I'm just really blah. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They have one more. They have like drive through testing. They don't have anything like that in New Mexico. So, yeah.
Misty Moncada: Um, I don't know, we live in a small town so like every lot there's so many things that are closed.
Misty Moncada: You know, it's just like being in a small town is more crazy because everybody's freaking out about it. So yeah and and the only thing that makes us like look Biggers we have a cannon Air Force Base here.
Misty Moncada: And that's the only thing. But other than that, that's like blocked off like nobody can just get in there so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Yeah, well, do what you can from home, take your temperature and just see. I mean, if you do have a fever, then you should try to get some medical support.
Misty Moncada: Oh, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is a scary time now to have a cough or sneeze. Everything is just so scary.
Misty Moncada: It's so scary how every how it's just going around so fast. Like, and I think that's what scared me last week is because I had went to work and then
Misty Moncada: They lie. I was already having issues with the guy that I used to take care of. They sent me back to take care of him.
Misty Moncada: And I just, I was like, Oh my gosh, I can't take care of this guy like he was getting on my nerves. So I was already scared, with the coronavirus thing working. So I just thought, why not going back to work.
Misty Moncada: Then I'll care if I lose my job like I'm freaking out with all this and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot of people are well
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I hope you feel better soon in. I hope it's not coronavirus and dad. It's just the way
Misty Moncada: The site from oh yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How have you been
Misty Moncada: Um, I, I'm doing okay like I'm having a lot of issues with my daughter, my daughter, my daughter and my daughter's on drugs and she has a boyfriend beaten honor and
Misty Moncada: It's just a
Misty Moncada: She came in here, flipping out through my mom's TV over and tried to steal my wallet one day and
Misty Moncada: Just been taking it rough. So today, she said she needed some money for the baby and I told her she could take my card to get some money out for the baby and
Misty Moncada: She never comes back with my card. So I have to report it stolen. Wow. And like
Misty Moncada: Which I should know better. She just a stupid crap all the time like she she shows up Vanessa's and make us believe her but like my mom gets maximum moms like give her a chance, like, You're so mean. I'm like this is the same crap I did when I was on drugs. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: Like the same crap like I know all the tricks and trades.
Misty Moncada: And like this the same crap I did in my mom. Just like you don't know how to talk to her. That's why she does what she does not like no
Misty Moncada: I'm going to tell her exactly what's on my mind. Not see here and let her finesse me
Misty Moncada: Man, today I let her do just that. She said, Well, I said, why can go to ATM he gets the money out for you. And she says, No. Well, and I'll just be right back. And she never comes back so
Misty Moncada: You know, it's just, um, I think I'm having issues with my kid right now that's like really stressing me out bad
Misty Moncada: And
Misty Moncada: WE GOTTEN TO A not last week, but the week before
Misty Moncada: We got into a fistfight man she was here sleep on the couch and it was early in the morning, I was in the kitchen, and she
Misty Moncada: Was getting ready for work and she's running her mouth just talking crap and I was
Misty Moncada: I just saw her back, like I don't know who the f you think you are, but I'm not the one I gotta do not care like you're not coming this House.
Misty Moncada: To be coming off drugs. If you could talk to me anytime away and she started talking to me. So I just
Misty Moncada: ran up on her. And I hit her am I'm we start fighting my mom rooms friendship between us and my daughter's on the couch. She kicks me right in my face and like
Misty Moncada: I don't know how to handle it is a parrot because I've never really been a parent. I've been in prison. My whole life I've been on drugs, my whole life. I don't know how to just sit down and
Misty Moncada: Talk to her, or be like, Okay, you have a problem you have addiction. I, I just want to beat her ass right away and be like, because I don't know how to
Misty Moncada: I feel like, man, I'm going through this. So my mom went through like it's a hard thing. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: It's hard. And for me, I get angry. I got angry issue. So I'm just like, I'm a Snatchers little bit which is not a little girl. She's 21 my novel Snatcher loudmouths up and I'm just gonna slap the shit out of her. You don't it so I haven't gone through a lot of issues like trying to be
Misty Moncada: A parent with a child who who's doing the same crap. I did. You know, I don't know how to be so maybe I was kind of thinking about maybe i know i'm done with all my classes for probation, but after this coronavirus thing is over. I thought about maybe taking some parenting classes.
Misty Moncada: I mean, my kids are all adults. My baby's 20 but maybe something that will help me learn to speak to them, instead of talking to them like some old gangster thug, Wade.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, you're trying to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're trying to retrain yourself on how to communicate effectively how to manage your anger parenting classes are effective and we can also work through those skills in therapy, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you brought up a lot of points that you didn't parent her. So this is not for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the insight that you have is that right now. It's more about getting control of the situation than it is about parenting.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You want her to know that you're not the one and like you said that mentality of who's going to be the boss who you know. So what I have patients identifying is that we all have thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, our thoughts.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And feelings contribute to how we will behave. So the addicted mind.
Misty Moncada: Is
Misty Moncada: always telling you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To go. It's always it's always seen go there's no barriers. There's no protectors. It just goes the sole proprietor sofa brain tells you to stop slow down minutes you know when to proceed. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's some projection going on from, you know, seeing how your daughter is behavior and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In real life. Is this some of my attic behavior. I need to get in control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But
Misty Moncada: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm curious to know if you really reflect on that that situation that occurred with the fight with your daughter. What was the
What was the feeling
Misty Moncada: For me, like,
Misty Moncada: Okay. It was very early in the morning and she's already running her mouth. And I know that she's coming down off drugs. I know that she's irritable, because these are all the things I used to do and then
Misty Moncada: She made me so mad because she was just like, fuck you, you know, just told me, like, fuck you flat out, like, fuck you.
Misty Moncada: I'm like, what, what did you say like it's too early for this shit. You know I'm saying too early first so me like
Misty Moncada: I have a, I don't have a good way of parenting, like, okay, what did you say I get pumped up like I'm still living a good life. And I'm like,
Misty Moncada: Okay, now you got me fucked up. Like, I'm gonna go over them Buster, your mouth is what I told her so, like, for me I afterwards.
Misty Moncada: I feel bad. Oh my god. These are not dubs on the streets like these are my kids like I'm not out on the streets anymore. I'm not in prison in the mark.
Misty Moncada: But I live. I'll go back to when I feel disrespected like I'll go about to prison time or or me being on the streets time and so sometimes I can tell like
Misty Moncada: I know it's I noticed a big difference. I know this is this is my family, but sometimes I don't see it like that, that moment, it just it pumps me up so bad that I'm like, Okay, well, what's up kind of thing. Afterwards, you know, I feel like can, but I just really do that to my daughter. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you said. The feeling is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The fact is, I feel disrespected
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so typically, when you feel disrespected
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The feeling that's associated with that is anger its aggression.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, and so that behavior that follows is it mirrors that aggression. So what you would want to do is be able to get in front of whenever that thought of being disrespected comes up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you remind yourself that you're not in the streets. You don't have to fight for your survival. So you would have to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: deflect the fight of the addition suspected with self talk to get you out of that because your thought your feelings, and behaviors they all align with one shot, one another.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What could what could be some self top
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Things that you would say to yourself, whenever that file of disrespect comes up.
Misty Moncada: And I don't know because I'm still working on that. Like, I don't know what will help my mind right now like I am.
Misty Moncada: I don't, I, I'm still there's so much I have to work on, like, like I'm still new in my sobriety. I'm still new and like trying to change.
Misty Moncada: I learned a lot in these classes that I just had for probation. I had 12 classes to do and and I did them in like I learned a lot. But still, like there's so much I have to play in my mind like just because I learned about him like I've never actually did all this
Misty Moncada: It's the big thing for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so let's work through that together. Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's go back to that situation that happened with your daughter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So she said a few. The first thought was, I'm being disrespectful.
Misty Moncada: But yeah, especially by my, my daughter at of all people like my daughter is what freaked me out because I was like, damn, like I
Misty Moncada: I just that made me it made me more angry. Yeah. Like to know that my child was talking to my dad. I know, I remember that feeling I got it may mean. Oh my gosh, maybe more pumped up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: being disrespected that core of it is the respect. So we you said your daughter and parenting respect is one of the biggest things
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's how we develop the discipline. That's how you know that your children are going to behave accordingly in private and out in the community. So the core of that was respect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, and so it was the lack of respect that my daughter has some of that projection may have been if you really, it's or hot deeper is. I'm wondering if you thought to yourself, is this why raised
Misty Moncada: But then, and then I
Misty Moncada: felt bad though because I wasn't always there. I didn't raise her, I was in prison and majority of my life. So that's what bothered me too. I apologize. I may interrupt you, but yeah.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so it was the disrespect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Here was the outrage to I'm going to get my respect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it didn't work because one. Your daughter is an addict and at the age of 21 they are practicing identity.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They, you know, trying to instill that respect at that age is a hard fight because when you said you don't have the foundation of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What memories or experiences you guys full and share in her childhood and upbringing. So now, moving forward, you will have to go in a different way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of when she react this way just taking care of how you respond. And so thinking less of controlling her behaviors, but more so on missed his behavior.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the self talk would be okay. My thought is, I feel disrespected the feeling is anger. And so typically when misty has
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: disrespected anger, she acts out her behavior is aggression. So what I'm going to do self talk misty mine yourself. Okay. This is not about respect here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is an adult. That is an addict. This is an adult that has no control but misty has control misty is learning how to fight the addictive brain and misty is going to activate for sobering.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what happens when we have these responses. The thoughts. The feelings, and behaviors. Our body will react to be an activated by that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the fact that it was disrespect anger and then aggression, your body tapped into the sympathetic central nervous system and activated the fight, flight, or freeze.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And your defense mechanism is fight.
Misty Moncada: And it's always been like that, you know, and that's the sad part. And then another thing with my job. Okay, this is what happened. My job. The other day was really pissed me off so Friday and group.
Misty Moncada: I couldn't even pay attention group like at all like my mind was not in group like I was listening, but I wasn't listening. I just kept you know just
Misty Moncada: I was just like, to every which way I can think, Okay, this is what happened. My job. Actually, the other day I had a client who was trying to have me do other things for him. Besides,
Misty Moncada: Do what I'm supposed to do at his house, would he came and he wanted me to rub his back his chest. He wanted to lay his, his head on my lap and let me comb his hair and I reported it to my job I reported to my job. And I said, look, I, I told my dog.
Misty Moncada: I'm not that kind of girl like if I have to tell him again. I don't care if he's not all there like because I know he is because you could just tell that he's trying to manipulate his way.
Misty Moncada: And then they were like misty like calm down. We'll talk to them. And I guess they talked to me said it wasn't true.
Misty Moncada: Okay, so they found me a different client. So take care of because of this guy and he's been through like 50 caregivers, because he's so hate
Misty Moncada: And doesn't ever want. Okay, so here's new caregiver was going to have surgery and was going to be out for three days.
Misty Moncada: They needed someone to take care of him and he requested me and I told my job. No, no. My job said no one else will go work for him because how hateful you so missed you gotta go.
Misty Moncada: That thing for me. So when I go back over there to work for him once again he's been a pervert with me and my little defense mechanism. When I got to his house.
Misty Moncada: He had because he has a gate, and he has, you know, the front gate right here on the side gate when I got to his house. He knew I was going to work for three days there. He had locks on the gates that was something he didn't have
Misty Moncada: Okay, so
Misty Moncada: Probably came out and I Delbert like I think 50 something years old. I don't even know how to be on I think
Misty Moncada: My mom knows his family. My mom said he's not that old. OK, so the gates are locked and I call Genesis and and my job. And I'm like, okay, the gates are locked. Can you please inform me because i don't i'm now my number.
Misty Moncada: I was like, can you please inform him that I'm at. So outside becomes he unlocks the gates and when I go inside, he locks the gates back
Misty Moncada: Which freaked me out even more so when I go inside there and he says, okay, Eric, what do you want, did you want to wash my hair first numbers like, hold on. Like I just walked in.
Misty Moncada: I haven't been here in a minute, like, hold on. And so he's like, but today, you're gonna rub my back in my chest. Now, I'm like, No, I'm not. He's like, Yes, you are. And I'm like,
Misty Moncada: I flipped out instead of me being professional I said look cool, like I'm not the one I'll bust your mouth. I said first far Detroit, not to talk to me like that. And then he was like, well, I know you told Genesis
Misty Moncada: I said I didn't tell him a damn thing. Why do you think I'm over here. I said I wanted a different client, because I had, you know, and I just straight lie to him, which I did tell Genesis
Misty Moncada: But I didn't want him to know that because I'm alone with this man, it's kind of slow. I don't know what he's capable of doing. You know what I'm saying. So I didn't tell him that
Misty Moncada: Well, he wanted. He was like, well, I know you told him, so I freaked out. He calls Genesis on the phone immediately my job.
Misty Moncada: And is like asking them questions about me. And I'm like, look, this is none of his concern. I'm just here take care of, like, my personal life isn't his concern I go out the door and I jumped over the fence.
Misty Moncada: And I don't go back to work. This is actually the whole truth of what happened last week I refused to go back. My job kept calling. I didn't go turn my hours in
Misty Moncada: I didn't go back and I was so angry that why would you put me in a situation after I already told you that this man was being perverted with me. Yeah, yeah.
Misty Moncada: And that really hurt my feelings hurt my feelings to the point where I am. I mean I'm not saying that I still have a prison mentality. My still have it.
Misty Moncada: I still have a good, I call it sometimes I saw this childish mentality where i don't i don't think like an adult sometimes. So my whole thing was like
Misty Moncada: What if I had to do so. Or what if I did not ahead to what if I did something so dumb. At that moment, and there I go in trouble again. But I heard already spoke to my job and said, Please don't. Don't put me back over there at that man.
Misty Moncada: Like oh, nobody else will do it. He doesn't want nobody else's house a request to you. So for me, I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was considering what I already told you he would want me back.
Misty Moncada: So that for me was another thing. He had a lot of anger. This whole last week Friday I couldn't concentrate in group. It was just like I was just listening and just not even paying attention and then the things of my daughter. It's just like
Misty Moncada: I don't know. Yeah, I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know what I'm sensing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I hear you use the word anger and hurt into interchangeably. Those are two different emotions. So if you were to reflect on this experience with your employer, as well as your daughter was the feeling anger or was it hurt.
Misty Moncada: With my daughter. I think it was more hurt with my client, it was more anger, because I'm
Misty Moncada: Like I've never been molested or raped or anything, but I've had friends who said they went through traumatic stuff. And I've always said I hope I never have to go through that.
Misty Moncada: And for when the, when I felt like that was my plan. I felt disrespected like I'm like not safe. Yeah, like anger built up like I didn't feel safe there. I feel like
Misty Moncada: Man, am I gonna have to do something to get out of this situation because the gates were locked. I jumped over get he came out yelling, it makes I jumped over his game. What are you doing, that's why locked him.
Misty Moncada: So I was like, no you a locking me in so that for me was anger with my daughter more hurt because I feel like I'm
Misty Moncada: I come watching me all over again. Yeah, yeah.
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What you work on misty is identifying really what the feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because, you know, the fight, but the feeling because you haven't process feelings in a while because you just you operate it on survival mode. So initially, when we're talking. He said, You felt disrespected by your daughter. But the more we talked about. It was like, really. I was hurt.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the conversation with happened with your employer at the beginning of the conversation. It was just very surface level. You just told me I quit my job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the more we started talking. Sorry, let me tell you what really happened why really quit my job, you started on peeling those layers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There was something that shifted
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In this conversation that made you feel safe to say, let me tell JESSICA What really happened.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when they happened at your caretaker with your employer, you said you felt angry, but really, as you kept talking set else scared in that moment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you see how initially the automatic feeling you go to with anger and maybe that's why it's hard for you to control that because it really is an anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's a different emotion underlying and when you're able to process what that underlying feeling is without emotion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's when you can do the work to find out the self talk because you already. You're very transparent. I appreciate that you said, I don't know what to say to read rewire my brain. I don't know any self talk
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I would offer that perhaps you don't know what to say. Because you're still trying to find out exactly what you're feeling
Misty Moncada: And that's the way I do feel like I feel so confused. Sometimes. Sometimes I feel like a, like, it's funny, like
Misty Moncada: I know how confused. Your last I felt when I was on drugs, but sometimes I feel confused last like if I was on drugs, trying to find my own feelings me because I can't figure out and
Misty Moncada: It's been so long since I've cried or been sad or the other night I stayed up all night like I could not sleep. I was deep in my feelings I stayed up all night watching Tick tock videos.
Misty Moncada: And it was showing videos like Kobe Bryant or his daughter or the coronavirus all around the world. And I started crying like I never hardly cry because I know myself for some
Misty Moncada: Years. So when I just the other night like I i didn't even go to sleep. Like I stayed up all night I went downstairs in the morning. And my mom's hear you. Okay. I said, I've been up all night like
Misty Moncada: My feelings. I was so deep in my emotions. I couldn't even go to bed like and it was funny. It was it was funny to me. But it wasn't funny because it's like, I cried over other things or other things, or it pertained to other people, but I felt something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How Daniel in that moment where you felt something. Did it feel comfortable. What does that experience like for you.
Misty Moncada: Like it just felt like man this is life like a gosh like it makes it feel emotional right now is because we, you know, watching them.
Misty Moncada: Like it was showing about how in New York, like everybody over there, like all the nurses and the doctors stressed me out and I start crying. I was like,
Misty Moncada: Oh my gosh, like this is life like people are really going to stuff like this is serious and then
Misty Moncada: Aware that we're showing a video Kobe Bryant his daughter playing basketball on to talk and I was like oh my gosh, like in their, in their last days, and then I start playing all these feelings like
Misty Moncada: Like, I don't know, it's just weird. Like I in a feel. It feels good to have some type of emotion.
Misty Moncada: That like I couldn't stop having no emotion.
Misty Moncada: I just kept wanting to cry. And I was just like, oh, get a grip on yourself. Misty, but it felt good. I guess to relieve
Misty Moncada: Stress because I've been stressed.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this may seem a little childish, but just just appeasement here, right. These are lists of different emotions, you're not the only one that shows
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really trying to find out what emotion, you're dealing with because some people are so protective of their feelings and not wanting the outside to see that vulnerability
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That the default emotion is go to anger. That'll scare people off. That'll keep people away and that will keep you safe.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But then we start really doing the chicken. You see, well, there's a range of different emotions. You know, I can be surprised excited with my daughter was I angry was I worried, you know, was I embarrassed or ashamed.
He's like different things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was going on with your employer, you know, where you annoyed that they didn't listen to your concerns angry scared.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Worn out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: These are lifts.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A list of different things. I'm actually going to send it to you. Misty and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want you to just look at it every day and then do a check in with yourself and then Sunday.
What you feel
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because we want to work on. You feeling these things your life didn't allow for you to be vulnerable. You had to be strong, you have to protect yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But now you can be vulnerable.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
I'm gonna have you look at him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then tell me, we'll see more she feeling right now in this moment.
Misty Moncada: I'm
Misty Moncada: See
If you want me to scroll down, there's more at the bottom.
Where did I see
Misty Moncada: A calm one I sent a comment like I actually feel calm right now. Believe it or not, I feel calm, because I can talk to you about it and I don't. It's like without judgment. You know, like I don't feel, Oh, there's
Misty Moncada: Like I don't feel there's any judgments. Here I
Misty Moncada: I'm
Misty Moncada: Not overwhelmed. See
Misty Moncada: I feel confused with a lot of things going on. Like, I feel confused that my job would send me back. I feel like confuse that
Misty Moncada: With what I'm going through with my daughter like confuses my head like
Misty Moncada: I'm
Misty Moncada: I feel on edge a little
Misty Moncada: When I talk about it though. Like when I don't think about it. I'm not on edge. But when I such talk about it. I get like all. Oh.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What is on edge me for you.
Misty Moncada: Um, for me, I feel like I'm
Misty Moncada: Like
Misty Moncada: I'm frustrated that moment, I feel like I'm about to react to it or but it's already over. But me, being on edge when I talk about it because I start getting pumped up and I get angry and I'm like oh yeah inside. I don't know if that makes sense. You don't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Make sense it all makes sense. This is good because it gives me an opportunity to give you some more skills so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That on edge feeling is very significant because that is where you can go from here to here, because that on edge means that if anything else rocks the boat. I'm going to tip over. I'm going
Misty Moncada: Over on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The ball over myself. So when you feel on edge that's that underlining motions those leftover emotion that haven't been process and some situations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whenever you rethink it. It's going to rise up. So if there was a box that you could put leftover emotions and only you have the key to open
Misty Moncada: What would that box look like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Describe it imagination.
Misty Moncada: Right to put emotions in it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whenever you have that on edge emotion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And like you said, it's because whenever I talk about it. I get reactivated. I started
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have that you would been
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Placed on edge and motion into this empty container.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the container is significant because it gives you an opportunity to say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Put it behind me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The key that you only have gives you an opportunity to realize that you have the power, and you have the control
Misty Moncada: Now, like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm describing the box is important, misty because you're literally would visualize this box when ever you get to that place of being on it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is no silo. It's like it's not something that come up on the spot, but just think about
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Misty Moncada: And it's just like
Misty Moncada: A card like for me right now. It's like, I, I would have thought BY NOW BECAUSE I'VE BEEN SOBER off heroin since January 1 and I would have thought by now that I would be in control of my emotions.
Misty Moncada: And I'm still not like when I start to get think about something. Boom. I'm right. Not right on edge immediately because I'll get like pumped up, I'll get angry or like
Misty Moncada: There's just so many things I keep playing in my head right
Misty Moncada: I don't
Need that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It may seem like fantasy and just mumbo jumbo but it works. It works tapping into that different space activating
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What you activate a central nervous system is the sympathetic part, the one that does the fight, flight, or freeze you now training your body and your brain to activate the calming phase, it's never done that before.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, for it to do it. It's going to need you talking to it and it's going to need imagination.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's going to be the visual
Misty Moncada: It's hard to I guess it's hard because I never did it before so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let me share a story with you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When I'm when I was younger, I remember my mom was she's the wash my hair she's to wash it in the same like the picture. See
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I would get so scared because whenever like the water get my face with touch my nose. I would feel like I'm drowning. I would feel like I was submerged in water. So I remember as a young child, I said.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I love the little mermaid and Ariel. So whenever it came time to wash my hair, I would think that I was a little mermaid. I was Ariel.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so, as my mom was washing my hair. Whenever I got scared, I would imagine myself being under the sea, and I was Ariel, the mermaid. And I didn't panic anymore.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At a young age I tapped into resource imagery
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I activated my brain to a calm state.
Misty Moncada: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe the box is a little too far off for you think about anything that will bring you to a space of calmness.
Misty Moncada: And another thing that's been calling me um
Misty Moncada: I have been getting very, very angry. I'm music like I just get on YouTube. Mm hmm. And I go through like all the songs like I don't care, whatever type of music, it is, and I find something that soothing to me and I'll play music
Misty Moncada: That's another thing I noticed that has been
Misty Moncada: Helping me a lot like a all fine, just I don't. It could either be country and I don't even care for country if it seemed soothing. To me, I will play that song and I will save it on my playlist.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's good. It doesn't help you in that moment when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He says F you. It keeps you in your face.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, and you're right at that moment. It was just like, like I'm still learning, it's it's sad to say, like, I'm still learning how to be a parent, like I've been out of prison since
Misty Moncada: And like
Misty Moncada: I am still learning to be a parent because there are adults now they have their own ways of thinking and talking and doing and and I'm trying so hard to be a parent. And I feel like
Misty Moncada: Sometimes in my head, I'm like, it's too late to do this, I get too late. Misty like it's too late. Just give it up just let them do them like, but then I'm like,
Misty Moncada: No, I'm not gonna let them do them. I'm not gonna let them talk to me some type of way. I'm not gonna, you know, and I noticed that. Another thing that probably bothered my daughter was the other day, she kept throwing stuff in my face. She's like,
Misty Moncada: You were never there like me all you thought you could buy our love because when I was strung out on drugs. I had this you know really rich sugar daddy that used to take care of me.
Misty Moncada: And he would give me like all this money every month for my kids.
Misty Moncada: And she remembers that as a kid. She's like, You thought money could buy our love like you were never there like all you were out doing is getting high and party and thinking that you just bring all this money to us every month.
Misty Moncada: And so, I realized that something was hurting her and I told my daughter. I said,
Misty Moncada: You're going about stuff the wrong way, if it bothers you. Maybe you need to go and I don't know where, like,
Misty Moncada: This came out and I was proud of myself, though, that I sent it though. I said,
Misty Moncada: Because usually I'm done, I just tell her, like, Oh, shut the F up like stop being a baby and get over it. Well, you know, the other day I was like, obviously, is hurting you.
Misty Moncada: Maybe you should try seeking counseling go to counseling and talk about it because if it didn't hurt you. You wouldn't be talking about it all the time we got in a fight.
Misty Moncada: So I told her that I didn't have a problem or any counseling with her like
Misty Moncada: And that right there kind of made me feel happy to say that because she is right like money doesn't buy, you know, and that was my way of shutting my kids up when I was strung out
Misty Moncada: If I go take my mom 1500 dollars for them. Here you go. They're fine. Kind of stuff. No, no, it didn't work that way. So,
Misty Moncada: I don't know, I just, there's just a lot of things that affect me. And it's like, and I'm trying my best to learn how to speak and then sometimes I just get so angry. I don't know how to speak yet. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let's go back to that imagery what something that represents nurturing to
Misty Moncada: Nurturing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, real or imaginary
Misty Moncada: I'm
Misty Moncada: Like being there.
Misty Moncada: I, I tried to use this as an example because I, you know, like I said some prison majority my life like in prison, like we would nurture the younger kids that would come in.
Misty Moncada: And just try to help them when they were crying or going through something
Misty Moncada: So I want to be able to do that with my kids and just be like, nurturing, like it's gonna be okay we're gonna get to this kind of thing. If I could do that to someone else's kid. I think I could do it to my own kids.
Misty Moncada: But my kids have a lot of them anger towards me a lot of bitterness a lot and and it's okay like in my mind, I'm like, it's okay to allow them to be themselves, but when I allow them to be themselves. I get
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Angry on my no
Misty Moncada: Yes, not only we can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know why because what you're doing is kind of what you're also doing in this session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When it comes to focusing on you and what you can do to regulate your emotions you deflect and think of your kids and like I shared earlier. They're older now. So the best gift you can give them is you being a whole person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So seeing and hoping and thinking restoration and it's almost like you're trying to go back to be in the parents and that their little ones, and that you can rewrite history.
Misty Moncada: Right, you can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It is present and it's moving forward. So moving forward, is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What can I do whenever you get in that place of, well, I'm not gonna focus on what I'm going to do, I'm going to see how to get my kids involved.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For example, and this is not judging. This is my assessment. I'll go back to parenting. I know they're older. But it'll help me. That's you and your desire to get that nurturing aspect back of being that mom have little child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When your daughter brought up how she felt that will go to therapy together.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your growth is almost codependent on your children.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's that guilt. That's coming up. And that guilt is making you think I'm going to rewrite history.
Misty Moncada: Right.
Misty Moncada: And I tried so hard to talk to her like that. Like, I tried so hard to keep my cool with her and and I like
Misty Moncada: I'm just like, oh, from everything I use from group for heard from group or learn from group or misty, you know, think before you react or I try, I try to do that sometimes. I'm like, Okay. Do you know don't tell her offer and then
Misty Moncada: And then she starts getting pumped up, and I guess it kind of gets me pumped up, but I just want them to allow them to be themselves and not come into our lives and change them, but
Misty Moncada: I guess it does kind of hurt to hear them say the true sometimes like knowing that a lot of that is true, like I
Misty Moncada: I didn't care. I was strung out on drugs or I wasn't prison. I was never there. And so I guess it kind of hurts me to hear that because it's like, damn, like these kids are really hurt.
Misty Moncada: Me and it hurts me and then I start to think down i'm just i'm i'm never going to be the right parent. I might as well just start even try. You know, I start to play these things in my head. And before I never cared like last year.
Misty Moncada: In December, I could be fighting my kids and I could be like
Misty Moncada: I could care less. We saw think if you're happy, happy if you're not, you know, I was just because I was in my addiction. I didn't care. It was like, I don't care which I have to say, I don't care what you feel and, you know,
Misty Moncada: And I really meant that when I used to tell them back when I was on drugs. I did not care what they had to say. I did not care about their feelings. I really mean that. Okay, now
Misty Moncada: I do care because I'm not on drugs, no more. I care about like how this has affected them now that they talk about it like
Misty Moncada: I do care. It's like, damn, like I really damaged their minds, where my daughter has to render drugs now or to numb herself or my son, my son is
Misty Moncada: Well, my oldest doesn't live from my youngest and he's really not that bad. I know something's affecting me. He'll speak on it, but it still affects a minister and effect.
Misty Moncada: Because they're starting to tell the truth, and I'm seeing it in a clear mind. I just don't know how to pay attention to it like that an adult. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The way you pay attention to as an Adele is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Take your responsibility. Moving on it. I'm sorry, that was your experience and putting what they said in that container.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or creating that imagery that go to
Of calmness.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like I said, the YouTube and the music is great, but what I'm trying to offer you our immediate imagery resources.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That help you in those moments where somebody is coming at us.
With your feelings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feelings are always facts, but it's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reality for that.
Person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you're gonna may say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something that you may think, but that wasn't true. I did a BSc but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You don't. You don't fight it. That was her reality. Okay.
Misty Moncada: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So my other sister.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relation as you add with the employer, someone may have said, well, I would have. I want to have been a grant would have been, I would have been scared so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Everyone's feeling this individual alive, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said in this session that sometimes like I don't even want to try. Is it worth it. It is worth it. Don't give up.
Right.
Misty Moncada: And that's what I don't want to do. I don't want to give up. I just get so frustrated sometimes it's just like, oh, like I don't even care or like, but then I do care because I'm not Mr on drugs anymore if I didn't care. I wouldn't be stressed out about it right now.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, that's the way I feel
Misty Moncada: And that's how I've been telling my daughter, like, obviously, it does affect because if it doesn't, you wouldn't be talking about it but like
Misty Moncada: I just don't want to be this crappy parent either. I want them to see that I can change my things will be different. It's just going to take time for me because I i've got a lot going on in my brain. I just I just feel like I'm a hot cast
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Aren't we all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All the hot mess of some sort.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whether it be parenting, whether it be a job relationship. We all have these complex emotions that we're trying to deal with the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right way is regulating it
Misty Moncada: And then now it's my job thing like I'm stressed out about it. I'm like, Oh my God, why did I just do that I need this damn job but
Misty Moncada: But then, I don't know, I'll just have to, you know, be strong about all this and just
Breathe.
Misty Moncada: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Exactly what you just did that is something that you can go to right away that belly breathing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, take short inhales and long exhales because it can notice when you're activated by your fight response, it's shorter breathing. Right. It's like okay anyhow longer Excel shorter
Misty Moncada: Feel it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In your body gets activated. But when you inhale short and Excel for longer call it the 711 breathing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That helps you activate that calming aspect that I told you is central nervous system.
Misty Moncada: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something happens because you still need to come up with that box. But in the interim, while you're thinking about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something happens, you gotta come back to she comes back home today. She goes, a credit card, he or she comes back home and she plays like she does a little wet with the credit card.
Misty Moncada: You gotta tap into that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Space, you gotta identify Misty, what am I thinking what am I feeling okay. Now how will I behave
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then that you're doing the 711 breathe. And the reason why 711 breathing is that you inhale for seven seconds.
Misty Moncada: And you can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell what you say.
Misty Moncada: So inhale.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Seven seconds.
Misty Moncada: Seconds and accelerate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 11 seconds.
Misty Moncada: Okay, I'm gonna have to try that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, you can practice it now and then you put the hand on your belly because you want to feel that expansion. You want to feel the
Misty Moncada: Breath coming out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So put your place your hand on your belly.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'll do the county. So inhale.
1234567 exhale 123456789 states.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Inhale 1234567 XL 12345678
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For more time, inhale 1234567 exhale 1234567
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So did you feel your shoulders rising. We had to inhale.
Misty Moncada: It made me feel a little dizzy.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, because I haven't definitely
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Doing it and then being
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Taken as long as you can to really get the full exhale for that 11 seconds because what you're doing is you're activating the body to call in a calm state.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's might react through the amygdala. We can't go on fight response because somebody says something that anger her but mystique not allowing the body to respond. So let's just calm down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And by you coming your body. Now you have time to think.
And feel
And then change the behavior.
Misty Moncada: Well, I want to be more mature about that, like I was just talking about that in group. The other day I was like, I feel like I could be so mature business right away. It's like site mode like
Misty Moncada: You know, so like one day, I want to be able to say, okay, you don't have to do that. It's okay to be angry or her or it's okay to feel belittled, or
Misty Moncada: You know i one day, I hope that I can get through that and not have to be so immature because that's the way I'm starting to feel like okay I'm 40 years old, I need to stop acting like that.
Misty Moncada: Then, but I think about that. And I'm like, Okay, don't do that. But then when I get angry. I do do it in house. So I hope that one day I can work on that and change that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can you just have to use the skills, like you said you're gathering all the information, but it's not the application yet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So once you start applying it. I promise you, all of this stuff I'm teaching you is research every race. It works.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It works.
Misty Moncada: And I'm pretty sure in like I believe you that it does. It's just, I've never, I've never used any of these techniques. So to me it's new and to me. I'm like, okay, it'll eventually work one day for me, like, like I'm open for anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah, I see that
Misty Moncada: So really,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you feeling now.
Misty Moncada: I feel better. I feel relaxed, now that I talked to, like,
Misty Moncada: I in my I'm really not feeling okay my other therapist, I am. I'm just really not feeling it with her. I miss my appointment with her. Um, I don't know if I explain to you, but, um, I don't know, I haven't talked to you.
Misty Moncada: I went to see the doctor. The mental health doctor for the month, I have to see once a month, and she was kind of rude to me. The doctor was
Misty Moncada: And I was going to file a complaint on her, but I didn't because there I go once get in prison mode, okay, you don't Snitch kind of thing.
Misty Moncada: And I told the lady that I was having a hard time sleeping. I had lines it and she started talking about the Suboxone program. Well, don't you think two strips is too much for you like
Misty Moncada: Maybe if you weren't still numbing yourself. So once again, this is what I went through with the doctor last month at men's health. So I was just like wow, like, really. So when I came out of the office with her. I was like, I don't ever want to see a doctor again.
Misty Moncada: I told my therapist my therapist said she wanted to have what is the where we all talk
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Misty Moncada: Um, and it never happened with the whole coronavirus thing, but my therapist was kind of like different towards me.
Misty Moncada: And or maybe I felt, maybe I feel like they're all against Me when one is I get I just be my head, but she said that she would have a thing talk with me and separate right now the way I felt it mental health. Last month I feel like I don't trust any of them.
Misty Moncada: Is what I felt because she was just like, Well, you're still numbing yourself. And I said, I'd rather be numbing myself with Suboxone then beyond heroin.
Misty Moncada: And I felt really disrespected without to that was another thing that happened, and maybe when this whole coronavirus thing is over a she says she's gonna be our mediator. Okay.
Misty Moncada: And she said that if she did that that was not professional and I wasn't gonna speak of it. But when she wondered why I counseled all my appointments
Misty Moncada: And she'll help I counsel everything so they called me. They're like, what's going on, like, why did you, you just went through yourself from all services. And I said, well,
Misty Moncada: I don't want to talk about it. Well, she said, missy. Can you please come in. So I went in and told her, I said, Look, it's just the way the doctor made me feel
Misty Moncada: So I guess maybe I should go back in and
Misty Moncada: That was really nice. I've never seen her be so rude. Rude with me or anything like that. And, but maybe she's having a bad day. I don't know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You go, seeing a different side of it. Yeah, maybe.
Misty Moncada: And I didn't see a different side at that one day when I went out of her office because it's a televised, you know, the doctor to televise over there and telco I was just like,
Misty Moncada: Fuck you, like, I really want to talk to you. So I leave out of her office and the nurses, like, Are you done with her. I'm like, No, I don't want to see her again.
Misty Moncada: I don't want to see your good so um when I ran out of mental health. It was just like oh like she's really angry.
Misty Moncada: But now I'm looking at from a different thing. Maybe she's having a bad day. Maybe she didn't know how to react to some things I said as well because I'm not
Misty Moncada: I'm not perfect either. I have a loud mouth, you know. So I'm now that I'm more calm about it and I'm thinking about it. That's something I want to resolve as well.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would have been helpful in that moment is the belly breathing the 711 that were to give you a time to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because what happens is because you have this quick response. You had to react quickly because of survival mode quick reaction that you react so quickly. You don't allow yourself to have time to stop pause and reflect that breathing will allow you to do that.
Misty Moncada: You're absolutely right. I don't I get so angry. Boom. I'm like, never it's me against the world. Yeah. And like I said, this doctor, Dr. Xu yeah I've never had any issues. I've never so have heard her
Misty Moncada: yell at me or anything. She's so soft spoken so that was another thing that I think I'm gonna once all this coronavirus is said and done, I do want to have her be a mediator for us. Yeah, figure out what was going on. So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When are we meeting again I want to catch
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're doing bi weekly right
Misty Moncada: Yes, we were but whatever you decide would be fine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Today's Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's do Wednesday, April 15 you want to do the same time.
Misty Moncada: Okay at 4pm. Yes, ma'am. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I sent you the email with the emotion sharp. What I want you to do is everyday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Ball how you're feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. On that emotion chart.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Morning afternoon, and night.
Misty Moncada: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, and then we're gonna we're going to review that and
Misty Moncada: You
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me what that experience was like for you. And also, if you notice a pattern. Do you notice, maybe more in the mornings, you're a little more angry. You know, there might be a certain time of the day to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Day emotions.
Misty Moncada: Know I'm pretty like I'm not one of those that wakes up in the morning is irritable. I guess it's just when I feel irritated is when I kind of act out
Misty Moncada: Yeah, but if I wake up really early in the morning and I'm okay. Then I'm okay. It's just if I get angry or the evening, if I'm angry or just different.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But, but this exercise.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To help you to one apply the skills, that's something that you said is a goal of yours, applying the skills that you're learning it gives you that opportunity to do it. And the good thing about logs is like I said you can catch patterns in your thinking thoughts or feelings so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We do that the next time we meet. Okay.
Misty Moncada: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, we'll take care and stay safe. Then I hope you feel better.
Misty Moncada: Okay, thank you. See you later.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: later. Bye.
Bye.